Minor: Remove unnecessary 'outputNode' on `SchemaKStream`. (#2906)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/serialization.rst

KSQL provides some additional configuration that allows serialization to be controlled:

.. _ksql_single_field_wrapping

-------------------------
Single field (un)wrapping
-------------------------

.. note:: The ``DELIMITED`` format is not effected by single field unwrapping.

> Controlling deserializing of single fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control deserializing of single fields
```

Author: I think the original `Controlling` works better as the chapter is about 'controlling' deserialization of single fields...

Reviewer: Dat's cool, it's just that the two gerunds sound a bit awkward. :)

==========================================

When KSQL deserializes a Kafka message into a row, the key is deserialized into

> the key field and the message's value is deserialized into the value field(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the key field, and the message's value is deserialized into the value field(s).
```

By default, KSQL expects any value with a single-field schema to have been serialized as a named
field within a record. However, this is not always the case. KSQL also supports reading data
that has been serialized as an anonymous value.

For example, a value with multiple fields might look like the following in JSON:

.. code:: json

   {
      "id": 134,
      "name": "John"
   }

If the value only had the ``id`` field, KSQL would still expect the value to be serialized as a
named field, for example:

.. code:: json

   {
      "id": 134
   }

If your data contains only a single field, and that field is not wrapped within a JSON object,
(or an Avro record if using the ``AVRO`` format), then you can use the ``WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE``
property in the ``WITH`` clause of your :ref:`CREATE TABLE <create-table>` or

> :ref:`CREATE STREAM <create-stream>` statements. Setting the property to ``false`` will inform KSQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`CREATE STREAM <create-stream>` statements. Setting the property to ``false`` tells KSQL
```

> that the value is not wrapped, i.e. the example above would be a JSON number:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the value is not wrapped, so the example above would be a JSON number:
```

.. code:: json

     134

For example, the following creates a table where the values in the underlying
topic have been serialized as an anonymous JSON number:

.. code:: sql

>     CREATE TABLE x (ID INT) WITH (WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE=false, ...);

Reviewer: Maybe a slightly more descriptive name than `x`. :)

Author: What would you prefer? 'Bob'?

Reviewer: Heh, I dunno, maybe something like `table-no-wrap-single-value` ... I'm all about verbose, self-describing object names, but ymmv.

> If a statement does not explicitly set the value wrapping, the system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a statement doesn't set the value wrapping explicitly, the system
```

> default, defined by ``ksql.persistence.wrap.single.values``, will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default, which is defined by ``ksql.persistence.wrap.single.values``.
```

> The system default can be changed. For more information, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the system default. For more information, see
```

> :ref:`ksql-persistence-wrap-single-values` documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`ksql-persistence-wrap-single-values`.
```

> Controlling serialization of single fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control serialization of single fields
```

Author: As above.

==========================================

When KSQL serializes a row into a Kafka message, the key field is serialized
into the message's key, and any value field(s) are serialized into the
message's value.

> By default, if the value has only a single field, KSQL will serialize the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, if the value has only a single field, KSQL serializes the
```

> single field as a named field within a record. However, this does not always match

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single field as a named field within a record. However, this doesn't always match
```

> the requirements of downstream consumers. KSQL allows the value to also be serialized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the requirements of downstream consumers, so KSQL allows the value to be serialized
```

as an anonymous value.

For example, consider the statements:

.. code:: sql

    CREATE STREAM x (f0 INT, f1 STRING) WITH (VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', ...);
    CREATE STREAM y AS SELECT f0 FROM x;

The second statement defines a stream with only a single field in the value,
named ``f0``.

> When KSQL writes out the result to Kafka it will, by default, persist the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when KSQL writes out the result to Kafka, it persists the
```

> single field as a named field within a JSON object, (or an Avro record if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single field as a named field within a JSON object, or as an Avro record if
```

> using the ``AVRO`` format):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the ``AVRO`` format:
```

.. code:: json

   {
      "F0": 10
   }

If you require the value to be serialized as an anonymous value, for
example:

.. code:: json

   10

Then you can use the ``WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE`` property in your statement.

For example,

.. code:: sql

    CREATE STREAM y WITH(WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE=false) AS SELECT f0 FROM x;

> If a statement does not explicitly set the value wrapping, the system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a statement doesn't explicitly set the value wrapping, the system
```

> default, defined by ``ksql.persistence.wrap.single.values``, will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the system default, which is defined by ``ksql.persistence.wrap.single.values``.
```

> The system default can be changed. For more information, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the system default. For more information, see
```

> :ref:`ksql-persistence-wrap-single-values` documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:ref:`ksql-persistence-wrap-single-values`.
```

> Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single-field serialization examples
```

> ========

Reviewer: ```suggestion
======================
```

KSQL deserializes the JSON object's fields into the corresponding fields of the stream.

 -------------------------------------
Top-level primitives, arrays and maps
-------------------------------------

The JSON format supports reading and writing top-level primitives, arrays and maps.

For example, given a KSQL statement with only a single field in the value schema and the
``WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE`` property set to ``false``:

.. code:: sql

    CREATE STREAM x (ID BIGINT) WITH (VALUE_FORMAT='JSON', WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE=false, ...);

And a JSON value of:

.. code:: json

       10

KSQL can deserialize the values into the ``ID`` field of the stream.

When serializing data with a single field, KSQL can serialize the field as an anonymous value if
the ``WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE`` is set to ``false``, for example:

.. code:: sql

    CREATE STREAM y WITH (WRAP_SINGLE_VALUE=false) AS SELECT id FROM x;

For more information, see :ref:`ksql_single_field_wrapping`.

.. _avro_format

----
Avro
----

> The ``AVRO`` format supports Avro binary serialization of all of KSQL's ref:`data types <data-types>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``AVRO`` format supports Avro binary serialization of all KSQL ref:`data types <data-types>`,
```

> including records and top-level primitives, arrays and maps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including records and top-level primitives, arrays, and maps.
```
